Blazor state management updates (#35873)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/blazor/state-management/persistent-component-state.md

---
title: ASP.NET Core Blazor persistent component state
author: guardrex
description: Learn how to persist user data (state) in Blazor apps using Blazor's Persistent Component State service.
monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-8.0'
ms.author: wpickett
ms.custom: mvc
ms.date: 08/04/2025
uid: blazor/state-management/persistent-component-state
---

> # ASP.NET Core Blazor persistent component state

Reviewer: Maybe "Blazor state persistence"?

> # ASP.NET Core Blazor persistent component state

Author: Yes, that sounds better. There's nothing really wrong with the former, too. We're careful with gerunds because they cause translation problems; however, that earlier one ("persisting") isn't a gerund, so it wasn't a problem.

> # ASP.NET Core Blazor persistent component state

Reviewer: Actually, now that I've read the article more fully, I've found it to be exclusively about persisting prerendered state, not a general state persistence overview. Should we entitle it as such?

```suggestion
# ASP.NET Core Blazor prerendered state persistence
```

> Without persisting component state, state used during prerendering is lost and must be recreated when the app is fully loaded. If any state is created asynchronously, the UI may flicker as the prerendered UI is replaced when the component is rerendered.

Reviewer: Persisting component state isn't just about prerendering. Can we lead off with a more general introduction into why persisting component state is important? It's useful for reusing the state from prerendering, pausing & resuming circuits, and maintaining state across browser refreshes.

> Consider the following `PrerenderedCounter1` counter component. The component sets an initial random counter value during prerendering in [`OnInitialized` lifecycle method](xref:blazor/components/lifecycle#component-initialization-oninitializedasync). After the SignalR connection to the client is established, the component rerenders, and the initial count value is replaced when `OnInitialized` executes a second time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider the following `PrerenderedCounter1` counter component. The component sets an initial random counter value during prerendering in [`OnInitialized` lifecycle method](xref:blazor/components/lifecycle#component-initialization-oninitializedasync). When the component then renders interactively, the initial count value is replaced when `OnInitialized` executes a second time.
```

`PrerenderedCounter1.razor`:

> :::code language="razor" source="~/../blazor-samples/8.0/BlazorSample_BlazorWebApp/Components/Pages/PrerenderedCounter1.razor":::

Author: 🤔 ... I thought I did that for a reason ... maybe enhanced nav fouled its behavior. I'll check and see why it's there.

> :::code language="razor" source="~/../blazor-samples/8.0/BlazorSample_BlazorWebApp/Components/Pages/PrerenderedCounter1.razor":::

Author: Resolved by https://github.com/dotnet/blazor-samples/pull/568.

> :::no-loc text="info: BlazorSample.Components.Pages.PrerenderedCounter1[0]":::  
> :::no-loc text="      currentCount set to 92":::

The first logged count occurs during prerendering. The count is set again after prerendering when the component is rerendered. There's also a flicker in the UI when the count updates from 41 to 92.

To retain the initial value of the counter during prerendering, Blazor supports persisting state in a prerendered page using the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.PersistentComponentState> service (and for components embedded into pages or views of Razor Pages or MVC apps, the [Persist Component State Tag Helper](xref:mvc/views/tag-helpers/builtin-th/persist-component-state-tag-helper)).

:::moniker range=">= aspnetcore-10.0"

<!-- UPDATE 10.0 - API cross-links -->

To preserve prerendered state, use the `[SupplyParameterFromPersistentComponentState]` attribute to persist state in properties. Properties with this attribute are automatically persisted using the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.PersistentComponentState> service during prerendering. The state is retrieved when the component renders interactively or the service is instantiated.

> By default, properties are serialized using the <xref:System.Text.Json?displayProperty=fullName> serializer with default settings. Serialization isn't trimmer safe and requires preservation of the types used. For more information, see <xref:blazor/host-and-deploy/configure-trimmer>.

Reviewer: Can we clarify here that this guidance really only applies to WebAssembly-based rendering?

The following counter component persists counter state during prerendering and retrieves the state to initialize the component:

* The `[SupplyParameterFromPersistentComponentState]` attribute is applied to the `CounterState` type (`State`).
* The counter's state is assigned when `null` in `OnInitialized` and restored automatically when the component renders interactively.

`PrerenderedCounter2.razor`:

```razor
@page "/prerendered-counter-2"
@inject ILogger<PrerenderedCounter2> Logger

<PageTitle>Prerendered Counter 2</PageTitle>

<h1>Prerendered Counter 2</h1>

<p role="status">Current count: @State?.CurrentCount</p>

<button class="btn btn-primary" @onclick="IncrementCount">Click me</button>

@code {
    [SupplyParameterFromPersistentComponentState]

>     public CounterState? State { get; set; }

Reviewer: Can the persisted state just be an `int`?

            Logger.LogInformation("CurrentCount restored to {Count}", CurrentCount);
        }
    }

    private void IncrementCount() => CurrentCount++;
}
```
-->

When the component executes, `CurrentCount` is only set once during prerendering. The value is restored when the component is rerendered. The following is example output.

> [!NOTE]
> If the app adopts [interactive routing](xref:blazor/fundamentals/routing#static-versus-interactive-routing) and the page is reached via an internal [enhanced navigation](xref:blazor/fundamentals/routing#enhanced-navigation-and-form-handling), prerendering doesn't occur. Therefore, you must perform a full page reload for the component to see the following output. For more information, see the [Interactive routing and prerendering](#interactive-routing-and-prerendering) section.

> :::no-loc text="info: BlazorSample.Components.Pages.PrerenderedCounter2[0]":::  
> :::no-loc text="      CurrentCount set to 96":::  
> :::no-loc text="info: BlazorSample.Components.Pages.PrerenderedCounter2[0]":::  
> :::no-loc text="      CurrentCount restored to 96":::

In the following example that serializes state for multiple components of the same type:

> * Properties annotated with the `[SupplyParameterFromPersistentComponentState]` attribute are serialized and deserialized during prerendering.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Properties annotated with the `[SupplyParameterFromPersistentComponentState]` attribute are serialized during prerendering.
```
